well a lot of people are always asking
me what do you give people when they
come to supper with you
and the answer I always give or
invariably give is a duck because duck
serves two purposes first of all it's
very easy to cook and that's very
important because when you've got people
coming around you want to spend your
time with them presumably that's why you
ask them around and it doesn't mind
hanging around so you can leave it for
an hour or so if you want to and it
won't come to any harm after it's cooked
the other reason I like to serve it is
because it is something special
we don't eat duck everyday so when
people are coming I like to give them
something special and easy so there's my
reasons I happen to enjoy eating it as
well myself now I want to explain to you
how to cook a duck because a lot of
people seem to be afraid of it and it is
very very easy the first thing you need
is to have a fresh duck if possible not
a frozen one but if you have to have a
frozen one then let it defrost very very
thoroughly and then let it dry don't
keep it covered in polythene or foil or
anything let it have some air to it so
that the skin can get nice and dry
because the object when you're cooking a
duck is to get a nice crisp crunchy skin
and if it's wet when it goes in the oven
that makes it more difficult the next
thing you do is before you put it into
the roasting tin is you just prick the
fleshy part with a skewer now the object
when you're cooking duck is the opposite
to when you're cooking chicken when
you're cooking chicken you want to get
it as moist as possible but when you're
cooking a duck you want to get the fat
out of it because it's got a lot of fat
in it it's a very fatty bird so the
opposite applies so these little holes
that you're making with the skewer will
make little escape channels for the fat
to come out during the cooking then you
place it in a roasting tin and a lot of
recipes when they're talking about
cooking duck recommend you put it on a
rack in a roasting tin but not
everybody's got a rack I haven't got one
so what I do is I use a piece of
crumpled foil which serves a purpose
very well so pop the duck onto its
little crumpled foil shelf so that it
won't sit in the fact whilst it's
cooking and then the next thing you do
is you sprinkle it with a little bit of
salt
Sault encourages the fact to come out
and just like when you're cooking pork
crackling the salt also helps to give to
the nice crunchy crisp skin which is
what I like when I eat a duck now that's
all you have to do you put it into a
preheated oven gas mark 7 that's 425
degrees and you give it 20 minutes at
that high temperature then you turn it
down to 350 degrees and you cook it for
3 hours but there is one important thing
before you put it into the oven and this
is the most important thing of all and
that is whatever you do don't put any
fat anywhere near it don't put any
butter or oil or anything I know it
looks rather lonely sitting there
without anything at all but that's the
best way to cook it so no fat near it
then during the 3 hours cooking hike it
out a few times and pour off the fat
that will come out of it and just to
show you how much fat does come out of
it I've got a duck cooking in the oven
and I've been draining it during the
afternoon here and look you can see how
much fat has come out of it that isn't
going to go to waste though because duck
fat is excellent for roasting potatoes
or for doing sauteed potatoes